At the Intersection of Youth and Truth

As any English major should be able to recite, "a 'thesis' is the overarching topic of a text, typically being presented in the opening paragraph (the thesis paragraph)." No, the thesis of this text is not a definition of "thesis" itself, but requires an understanding of the idea. The thesis here is bifurcated - a dual thesis of, trust and love, ultimately.

Popular industrial-rock band Ministry produced a track titled stigmata in the 90's with the lyrics "The only truth I know, is the look in your eye..." conveying in one sentence, a lifetime of frustration and disappointment over a pattern of betrayals and unwelcome, inescapable vulnerability, whereby Al Jourgenson (the band's front-man) was forced to learn to rely on intuition and instinct to help inform him as to when and what should be believed. These betrayals, as a tangent, probably arose from the effect strong addiction has on human behavior, as is also a theme in his lyrics ("never trust a junkie..."), etc. While not 100% reliable, there is wisdom here - sometimes separating a person's demeanor from the world, mentally, and evaluating it objectively, is a more accurate compass of trustworthiness than any amount of sophisticated "bullshit detection" which may exist. Hold that thought.

Part 2 of the thesis is, love - and its relevance to youth with emphasis on changing and developing needs. To keep the length and scope of this text manageable, focus shall begin and end with puberty, at which time youth enter a new universe of hormones, discovery, and adventure.

Sarah McLachlan sings in her beautiful track, Adia, "We are born innocent." and sadly, in this world it is not long before trials and tribulations, abuse, toxic education, lack of freedom, lack of love, and overwhelming pressure to conform and obey make broken people out of us - and broken people have broken views of the world, in particular, the morality and propriety of everything concerning children. 

Adults all can be placed, generally, somewhere on a spectrum defined by two extremes, with sadomasochism at one end, and pure, altruistic love at the other. Unfortunately, our world  is comprised mostly of people, due to being broken, who fall somewhere between neutrality and sadomasochism. These people, understanding sex to be a basically selfish act, taking more pleasure and emotional nourishment (if any) than giving, regard youth as strictly off-limits as potential victims of what to them, is parasitic, damaging, and unhealthy. But the consequences of segregating youth contrary to nature, is disastrous to their mental and physical wellbeing. As hormones begin to flood the body in earnest between ages 9-15, youth struggle with powerful new emotions, impulses, and natural sexual needs which if ignored, result in depression, hyperactivity, frustration, broken concentration, and potentially, "cutting" or even suicide, etc. (see movie The Virgin Suicides).

Our misconfigured society attempts to make equals of men and women, when in nature, due to the basic fact that women carry and nurse young, roles have evolved to be very different by necessity. Men and women are not equal, but are equally vital to family stability and the raising of young. One of the toxic byproducts of this misconfiguration is that, from birth, young girls are micromanaged so as to prevent accidental pregnancy, which would legitimately represent disaster given society's expectation that they should first complete schooling and possibly begin a career, etc. per being "equal" to men, whereas in nature this would be time spent as mothers.

Getting back to a natural, supportive environment in which youth are not forced to fend for themselves regarding sex and love (two things that should always go hand in hand), means reintegrating them into society as fully autonomous agents of their own bodies and sexual decisions, provided evidence of wherewithal to consent and understanding of the main effects, the basis for any valid agreement. Also, having loving partners, not vampires. A saying goes, "childhood is short enough. Let not the wolves hasten its conclusion..." Wolves indeed have no business around children, but fixing the problem involves making healthy, compassionate people out of as many people as possible, and letting nature resume rightful control of biology and evolution.

* * *

It has become, tragically, standard practice to rush the conclusion of childhood, in ourselves and others, in myriad ways which may not appear to do so, but do, at the cost of, ultimately, our collective existence.

"Reactionism," or being "reactionary" is the (generally foolish) approach of solving problems after they occur, usually with little or no concern for the eventual byproducts of the "solution." This approach always fails to drive a process, being implemented too late for insight and planning to be significant factors. Waiting for things to become problems, like the deadly effects of segregating youth in the name of "safe precaution" or past precedent (prior incidents in which children were harmed), is to allow widespread social and individual damage to occur, which is a snowball effect with the power and toxicity to undo a civilization.

If this sounds overdramatic, consider that in the last ~30 years, our world has transitioned from one in which basic freedoms extended, marginally to youth as options to:
ride in the open-backs/beds of pickup trucks
wear seatbelts/helmets per their (or their parents') discretion
register for full-featured online services (now age often becomes a piece of required information which is used by many apps and websites to cripple the content & features if it is determined that a child has signed up)
travel/roam freely without interference or restriction
behave naturally with regard to sex, without fear of repercussions for themselves and others
purchase paint, chemicals, certain tools, travel vouchers, etc.
elope (it's no longer possible to escape evil parents!)
consume media not designated as being specifically "for youth"
live and breathe without the ever-present distraction of surveillance
These and many other ways in which reactionary policy-making continues to divide youth from "adults," is basically surgically amputating, from the "adult community," all reference we should have to those characteristics of youth that ultimately glue us together as a peaceful, friendly, happy society.

"Youthful idealism," that unique perspective of young people to see the possible and generally care about things, people, animals, etc., is one of the costs of abandoning childhood. There is a prevalent expectation and pressure to eventually "grow up," which for most people involves letting go of everything they consider "childish," such as sensitivity, raw creativity, adventure-seeking, reflexive (easy, effortless) trust & love, a sense of wonder, awe, and beauty, and most importantly, dreams - dreams of a future unwritten, possibilities both exciting and amazing... all of which, upon "growing up" most of us sacrifice in the name of practicality, necessity, and maturity.

The truth is, "adulthood" does not conflict with those aspects of youth. It actually depends on them for healthy, well-rounded existence and by choosing to eventually (and often very quickly) abandon our inner child, a very special light within us, is extinguished.

Steps must be taken across the board to correct this misguided path on which our whole civilization has gotten lost. Steps including, essentially reintegrating youth and adults in entertainment, essential freedoms, and basic attitude toward childlike qualities - that they, like kindness etc., are not "weak." Never mistake kindness for weakness, nor optimism for foolishness. The estrangement of childlike qualities is the basis for most evil in the world at present - and we are dying as a result. This is a fact. It's hard, sometimes to "see the forest through the trees," but ours is a system that does not warn us of its impending failure, but failing, it is, and in epic, terrible ways. Reconnect now with your inner child, if he or she can be found. Fight to stop the alienation of our youth. It's a fight for our lives.
-end-
