Democracy 2.0

Attributed to an invention of France, democracy in its most basic form, is the system of deciding on policies within a group, by way of having group members each vote up or down on proposals, thereby deciding by majority rule what is right. Herein lies several problems. 1) What's "popular" isn't always what's best, most productive, healthiest, or even necessarily in the group's interest! 2) This form of democracy is never possible as an exclusive means by which policies may be decided in sufficiently large groups due to the need of "pre-selection" or vetting of initiatives to keep ballots manageable, making the action of pre-selection the basis, primarily, for policy-making. When was the last time you voted on something fundamental, for example? 3) The inevitable pre-selection of ballot initiatives creates the illusion of democracy, never the thing itself. However there is tremendous potential in the underlying concept and fairness offered by democracy, which would be fulfilled by the following: Instead of the principle of 1 person = 1 vote, just as with economics, health, gender, education, experience, etc., people are not equal! This principle alone ensure that democracy in its basic form, will never be fair. So votes must be weighted by factors pertaining to each individual's background, capacity for reason, experience, goodwill, and number of non-voting dependents (their constituency). Weighted votes, and making every idea potentially voteable by way of technology and ability to search for, vote on, and enact items of individual interest, at any time would be best.

Attendant to such a system of representation which may emerge from non-voting individuals giving their votes to qualified representatives, is the need to provide for the basic needs of all community members, thereby eliminating potential that they would be hooked or enlisted by those seeking voting power. Providing for basic human needs, besides being an obvious function of any fair system of government, makes exchange of luxuries for votes the only possible alternative to votes being granted voluntarily to those reps whose qualifications are appropriate, and luxuries, by definition, ranking below necessities in terms of priority, make political movement and policies based, then, on healthy, appropriate bases - not those which can be bought, coerced, or sought primarily by addicts, or other causes contrary to group and individual success, the focus of the voting system.

Differentiating "Needs" from "Wants"

At the time of this writing, a debate among the world's communities is reaching a conclusion, as to the definition of what is "essential" in terms of business, freedom, and ultimately, basic human needs.

The answer, while like many things concerning society, varies from individual to individual, but can be easily reduced to a formula applicable to anyone -

Essential "needs," versus "nice-to-haves" or "wants," consist of all that which is required to enable and sustain (until a point at which health fails due to biological factors which cannot reasonably or affordably be corrected through medicine), a quality of life which includes the central elements attendant to a normal, healthy, natural lifestyle - including: access to clean water, nutrition, clothing, shelter, socialization (both potentially sexual & platonic), cerebrally-engaging daily activities (games, entertainment, etc.), internet access, and, in most places nowadays, reliable means of transportation. Additionally, opportunities for education, basic (defined elsewhere) healthcare, and provision for retirement. Beyond these exist luxuries which while desirable to many, constitute "wants" and which should be attainable through the usual channels of brains, talent, and hard work, in a system that ensure such is possible and guarantees equal opportunity for all.

The Big Opportunity

One of the main features of the brain is its capacity for memory & learning. Through observation or direct experience, we all record countless details of virtually everything, including the relative ease or difficulty with which an object of desire was procured. This particular memory bank, which remembers exactly how hard we had to work for something due to its cost or scarcity, is directly connected to the part of the brain that intuits a thing's value on-the-fly. This is good and bad. Good because this system ensures that we "instinctively" minimize waste of useful, hard-to-get items, such as food, etc., and bad because when scarcity/cost is not and issue, waste tends to occur. Also knowledge of people's "programmability" opens the possibility of manipulation by those who would use "price" to artificially inflate perceived value.

"The big opportunity" is to demonstrate, collectively, that as intelligent creatures we do not need to rely on this ancient, reptilian neurological feedback loop in order to be healthy and responsible - that we can consciously and deliberately manage our wastefulness with a different part of the brain, the prefrontal cortex which is involved in planning and decision making. In other words, we all may soon find many of the things we've been forced to work very, very hard for, provided, BUT should rampant waste and disrespect for the abundance become a problem, the big opportunity will have been missed.

-end-
