Devils of Truth

Truth: All that which cannot be disproven.
Ideas have only two enemies: ignorance and fallacy.
More rules can never result in greater net freedom.
Upon becoming counterproductive, risk-management becomes micromanagement as well.
Kisses can never justifiably be required.
The heart does not negotiate.
Most alliances end up costing more than they're worth.
Love never hurts. If it does, it's something else.
Truth is indestructible. Only truth is indestructible.
The fruits of iniquity perish before the fruits of virtue.
Civil order at gunpoint is a contradiction of terms.
The pain of love lost is from loss, not love itself.
Information of any kind can only be a threat to faulty or false logic.
To defend a lie is to buy today a meal, with 2  from tomorrow.
The end justifies, within established constraints, the means.
Truth, once proven, becomes irrefutable, immutable, and indestructible, and while the only enemies of truth are ignorance and fallacy, those enemies are ubiquitous and become prey for "devils of truth" - those traps and pitfalls laid by the unscrupulous to ensnare the vulnerable.

With power comes responsibility to use it within an ethical framework, or else damage those affected by it, and eventually lose it. The best insulation a community can have against devils of truth, is education, as the broader the base, the less prone one is to being misled, but truth.

The most convincing lie is that sandwiched between truths. Hence a need to learn to recognize "separateness" of logical elements. Seeing separateness of ideas, things, and people, is as important as seeing the ways in which they connect. Individuality, both personal and where logic is concerned, is absolutely necessary for any system to function. When "separateness" becomes vague, so too does accountability, specificity, and ultimately, identity.

Identity constitutes who we are on a fundamental level - defined by the boundaries between ourselves and others. Just as truth depends on ability to isolate and define individual elements, so too do we.

A sense of self underlies any capacity for "believing in ones self," self esteem, self confidence, and self respect. Respect individuality and the truths that it empowers.

Truth in speech or writing can be evaluated in two ways - based on the conveyed/interpreted meaning, or, based on the meaning intended by the speaker/writer. The former is subject to disagreement as different people may, sometimes deliberately, interpret the meaning and thereby the truth differently. The latter is not subjective and may actually support a claim of "total truth." In other words, anyone can be made a liar if you try hard enough to misunderstand them.

"'cause I'm a million different people from one day to the next, I can't change, no... no..." -The Verve

-end-
