The End of Law

Law, defined here as any system and body of rules and language serving the purpose of enacting justice on behalf of the public, is, as will be hereby proven, self-defeating and ultimately unsustainable due to an inherent self-contradiction.

Law's fatal flaw is its own reliance on and requirement of precedent by which future proceedings and decisions of those bound by it, are expected to conform. Simply, precedent and its dependency are in direct opposition to a deeper requirement of any justice system, that of due process.

To make laws which blindly and unilaterally proscribe arbitrary events and actions irrespective of circumstances, is literally to dispense with the need for, once the "illegal" action is assumed or observed to have happened, any further investigation, establishment of context, and, critically, determination of impropriety. Reducing an action to a question of whether or not it is in violation of some past precedent as stipulated by penal codes, is to make an inappropriate comparison between events which cannot be justifiably compared for the purpose of determining wrongdoing, as they involve very different circumstances and people, usually, and therefore deserve and require independent, objective evaluation, ergo, due process.

Allegations of misconduct in any legitimate justice system, must be evaluated without bias from previous, different events and their unique circumstances.

On a long enough timeline, given Law's self-defeating destiny, the resulting injustices, false arrests & prosecutions, and general failure of its purpose to render justice - Law becomes, essentially, a revocation of liberty of those citizens who are promised via sacred documents, patriotic dogma, and the National Anthem itself (in US), that this is the "land of the free," and who are supposedly guaranteed "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," but who receive instead, or don't receive, usually, the long list of things that just can't be done regardless of context.

Any campaign which stops functioning as advertised will eventually be called for reform or removal - especially those central and necessary to our basic survival.

Considering alternatives, a superior justice system would be one rooted in and based on agreements.

Agreements properly involve: 
	1) Wherewithal (consciousness, demonstrable).
	2) Understanding of the central effects of the proposal.
	3) (for written agreements) brevity. Reasonable understandability.
	4) Consent itself, either express or implied.

...Allegations of misconduct under such a justice system become complaints of breach of contract, or failure to secure a contract, for any matter involving property or personal space (mental or physical), finances, etc. before which a questionable action is alleged to have occurred. This system will call upon courts and judges that, upon recognizing legitimate complaints, shall grant full, due process to them with appropriate investigation, establishment of context, and finally an objective determination of impropriety without prejudice or bias arising from past precedent, hearsay, conjecture, circumstantial evidence, etc.

Liberty is not optional. It is not based on lies, incompetence, or irrelevant precedents. Liberty defines an important part of our world and the collective quality of life of its inhabitants. May "liberty and justice for all" become, per the US pledge of allegiance, a reality, and an ideal to strive to uphold, cherish, and be proud of.

"A society may be judged by how it treats its own criminals."
- anonymous


-end-
