Maggie and Spencer - an Erotic Tale

Spencer examined the lunatic scrawlings on the walls of his cell, each in turn - tags from prisoners past, chipped paint, toothpaste, and other forms of carving and coloring, which composed a jarring, abstract mosaic on the surfaces of his cell. He awaited trial for charges of trespassing, although the complaint was bogus, and he was confident of winning, when the day came. Meanwhile, he was stuck in the county jail, allowed to roam the "yard" for two hours a day, but confined to his cell for the remainder.

It was a co-ed jail, male and female inmates housed together, but his cell remained empty, with two bunks, only himself to occupy it. It was after midnight, and he was awoken by the sound of his cell door unlocking. He sat up and watched as a female inmate entered, pushing her mattress and bin of belongings, and he sat up fully. He volunteered the lower bunk, considering her to be someone who, by appearances, should benefit from his providence, and for which she thanked him. Climbing to the top bunk, he casually observed her movements as she pushed her mattress into place, and straightened her things. She was petite, with no visible tattoos, shoulder length dark hair, and a surprisingly pretty face with delicate features. She volunteered "hi. I'm Maggie. Arson. Who are you?" Spencer said "name's Spencer. Here for a bullshit trespassing charge. Gonna fight it." Maggie said "sounds like fun." Then they said no more that night, and slept quietly until morning.

The next day, Spencer awoke early, as he had been, but saw that Maggie was already up and sitting at the table they both shared, writing. Spencer climbed down from his bunk and brushed his teeth. The two exchanged "good morning" but said nothing else, until after breakfast. Suddenly Maggie said, "you live around here?" Spencer said "been here for over 10 years. You?" Maggie replied "moved here with my fiancé last year. Things kinda fell apart. We moved here from Colorado." Spencer nodded. Maggie didn't look more than 25, but he thought he'd ask... "got kids?" She said "none, yet..." He noticed the 'yet' and became aroused, in spite of himself. Maggie set down her pen and turned to look Spencer up and down. She asked "do you?" Spencer said "a step daughter who I haven't seen in a few months and who I miss. Other that that, not sure, honestly." Maggie smiled and turned again to her writing.

The day went by, as days do in jail, uneventfully. Dinner came and went, then it came time to sleep. Maggie, just before Spencer was about to climb onto his bunk, said "hey. You want to read something?" Spencer paused, then said "sure" and climbed back down. Maggie scooted over on her bunk and patted the space next to her. Spencer sat. Maggie handed him a page with handwriting on it, a poem apparently, which Spencer read slowly, taking in each line as if it were a course in a meal he'd been waiting for, for a long time. As he continued to read, he noticed Maggie shifted her position slightly so that her shoulder contacted his. Spencer could, in their closeness smell Maggie's feminine scent, and he smiled a little as he kept reading. As he neared the bottom of the page, Maggie leaned more fully into him, then, rested her head on his shoulder. Spencer, finishing the poem, told her "that was very good. I'd like to see more." Maggie said "yeah? I have others, quite a few. Gives me something to do in here." Then she looked up into Spencer's eyes, and they just looked at each other for a long moment. Spencer felt as he'd been needing to look into these eyes for way too long, and instinct gripped him like a vice. He reached up with his hands that smelled of soap and took her face, gently in both, then brought his lips to hers, slowly, and kissed her.

Her lips were soft and plump and tasted faintly like toothpaste. Her mouth against his felt so right and Maggie exhaled with a soft moan. They kissed and kissed for what seemed like minutes, then they both took off their clothes and Maggie laid on her back while Spencer, with warm hands massaged her feet and legs. He massaged them for a long time giving special attention to her calves, ankles, and thighs. Lifting her feet over his right shoulder, he moved the smooth part of his forearm slowly from her ankles to the backs of her knees, then toward her buttocks, contacting her swollen vulva, which left wetness on his arm. He moved his arm back toward her knees, caused Maggie to breathe heavily, and he himself to become fully erect. Over and over he moved his arm across her hamstrings and buttocks, slowly pressing on her genitals with each pass, then he parted her legs very slowly and gently and turned his arm to be parallel with her body and continued to massage her, now very wet vagina. Then he kissed her labia, slowly moving his mouth and tongue over her swollen wetness, stimulating her clitoris. Her scent and taste was wonderful and when she was about to climax, he slowly inserted his penis, one tiny thrust at a time into her. She opened her mouth in short gasps as he drove in, still slowly, feeling the smooth warmth and slickness of her fully lubricated vagina. He leaned down and caressed her nipples with his mouth, and she began to moan again, louder now. Thrusting deeper and very slowly still, he felt her come. It was a racking, convulsing orgasm and she bit his shoulder, and dug her fingernails into his back. He felt himself climaxing and just before he came, he said "I love you Maggie." and ejaculated into her body, shaking and now quite sweaty, both of them. His thrusting slowed, then stopped. He kissed her lips again, her neck, her chest, and then, pulling out with one swift movement, kissed her belly and then, her pubis, before reaching for a clean towel with which to clean up, handing it to her first.

The couple repeated variations of their lovemaking each night, and eventually contacted each other upon being released, began dating, and eventually married. They had 3 children and lived happily ever after.

-end-
