Nick and April
Nick sat atop the barstool at his kitchen counter, absently watching the LED on his microwave clock blink on and off in half-second intervals. He looked down at his phone for the tenth time this evening, with hope and a little anticipatory stress that her call might not come. In a "moment of clarity" which he'd heard happens to alcoholics sometimes, he stared into his dimly-lit front room, taking in the fine details as if seeing it from the perspective of someone else. He noticed that the room was filled, but not over-filled, with very nice things. Connected to this observation was a deep feeling of accomplishment having, in his mind, done very well for himself in life.

His mind returned to the conversation with April he hoped to have shortly, the girl he'd met online through a literary social platform. They had chatted through the website a bit, commenting on each others' writing, but this would be their first voice meeting. She worked as a junior editor for a local news publication and had said she would "try to call after 6pm." Nick really didn't know much about her, other than she liked to blog about cooking, travelling, and poetry. She wrote well and Nick reminded himself of the typical things girls like from his experience... kissing, dancing, Thai food, spiral staircases, etc.

Just then the phone rang. The number was local and not recognized. It had to be her. Nick cleared his throat and tapped the answer button. "Hello?" A woman's voice replied "hey Nick!" April's voice was confident, very feminine, a little gravelly as if from constant use, but in a sexy way. She continued "is it a good time?" Nick said "couldn't be better. How are you?" She said "I'm good. A bit worn out but not tired." Nick thought about this, noticing the contradiction and decided it was an escape hatch, in case she decided to bail, but that a date or something remained possible. "Yeah? I feel that way sometimes. Say, I'm kinda hungry. How 'bout I buy you dinner at Mel's, and we do this right?" A long pause as if she'd been put on the spot and was wobbling. He knew that, based on their positive rapport and that he himself was a catch, she'd agree. She did.

40 minutes later, at the brightly lit diner, Nick pushed open the door, looked around and saw smiling at him, April was seated in a booth, third from the door, hands folded on a menu. Nick was impressed that she hadn't played games with timing her arrival to be late like some people do to create the illusion of disinterest.

He approached the booth, smiling, and while taking off his jacket, gestured at the empty seat across from April as a formality. She nodded emphatically and he sat.

April and Nick said nothing for a long moment, but looked at each other, forming their first impressions. April noticed that Nick, while well-groomed, was not overly preoccupied with the details of his appearance. He did not have any of the weird little things like an over-manicured beard, a strange hairdo, extreme piercings or tattoos, etc. that suggest issues of some sort. Instead, he had normal hair, a little messy though not appearing intentionally so, a clean-shaven face, kind eyes, and masculine features. She mentally put a checkmark next to "handsome."

April was, as Nick saw instantly, a hottie. Her shoulder-length hair was straight with twists at the end, blonde with a little color on one side - pink bangs and a few strands of cobalt blue. She wore a black jacket over a purple tee-shirt which had the raised-fist symbol of political solidarity - which politics, Nick wasn't sure. There was a button on her jacket with an Apple Computers logo with the red circle-slash over it, and her hands were unadorned, surprisingly Nick thought, absent of jewelry of any kind. He noticed her eyes were hazel, with faint hints of shadow and eyeliner, but largely, her makeup was au naturale. 

Nick broke the silence saying "I approve." April looked sideways at him and said "approve of what?"

"You. Your clothes. Your style. Tell me, what's wrong with Apple?"

"They try to own everything. Patents, data, you and I... So I don't like them." Nick nodded understanding. He said "Isn't that the whole point of corporations though? Aren't they kinda supposed to do that, and, is it fair to say that any alternative is feasible for them? I mean, they must compete or lose market share. And even if they somehow were a democracy internally and had a vote to, as you say, 'own less,' can a business that size even alter its trajectory in this economy? They have shareholders and countless employees to answer to, not to mention their customers..." April nodded and thought for a moment. She said "I see you think on your feet. I like that, but in answer to your question. Yes. It is feasible for tech giants to respect the privacy and cater to the financial situations of their consumer bases, those to whom they owe so much, for without customers, they could not exist. If people only understood the force with which big data and big tech harvest personal info, fix prices, gobble up patent rights, etc., leaving literally nothing for anyone else... if they knew, and if our "economy" were such that other viable options were available, things would be very different in a hurry."

Nick and April again paused, looked at each other for a long moment smiling, then picked up their menus and it was clear they were already in love.

-end-
