noticing endings


In games, jobs, relationships and most things there comes a point at which, whether forced to or not, it is time to close the metaphorical chapter and move on. Sometimes this means closing a small part of something bigger, or a final conclusion to something big itself.
In the latter part of the second millennium, camps formed of economic theorists who saw potential in two opposite directions. Some saw the best future for mankind existing as a cooperative effort by the people to produce, manufacture and own most things. In this way distribution of wealth and resources would be regulated, creating controls for fairness and oversight. This community-run system was named, predictably, "communism". Those in the other camp saw the greatest future for mankind as enabling and encouraging private ownership of everything, letting the market determine what and how much of things would be manufactured. A market-driven economy based on money (capital), is called "capitalism" accordingly.
Centuries ticked by and the capitalists emerged dominant, crushing communism underfoot, which capitalists pointed to as evidence that they were right all along. But as the market-driven economies continued to grow, problems began to emerge - issues with price gouging, profiteering, production of products people didn't really need or want but were compelled to buy due to deceptive advertising, a general decrease in product quality over time, and actual deadly products made popular by their effects on the brain. In short, capitalism began to devour itself and the people who used it. A system run amok, it did not wish to be replaced - too many people had become dependent on it. But it was clear that the end had come. It was time to "level-up" and leave the problems of a competitive economy behind, where people were forced to scramble for ownership of everything, health of the majority generally suffered terribly, and the spirit of communities was basically every man for him (or her) self. Ironically, under capitalism, everyone becomes a competitor and the failure of others becomes one's success - creating a toxic environment. A cooperative economic model as originally envisioned seemed appropriate, or some combination of the two systems.
The biggest challenge to moving forward is getting those involved to recognize and accept that it is time to do so. It is human nature to make do with what we have. Change is scary and often difficult. Admitting capitalism's failure requires someone to see it firsthand - it is not enough to just tell someone it has failed. Even then, there is the inertia of precedent with which to contend. People like to do what they've been doing, usually, however destructive or toxic. Inspiring change and motivating people to move forward is an art form, and not an easy one

-end-

