Objective Truth & its Dependence on Conceptual Specificity

Natural languages, having evolved organically over the ages, while indispensable to civilization, often give rise to disagreement and conflict over meaning and truth contained therein.

Conveniently, mathematics, philosophy, and scientific languages make a point of disambiguating their terminology so as to enable and streamline logical reasoning. Natural languages... not so much!

Words are mere symbols - of things, properties, qualities, and some glue to make it all flow so as to be understood. But as symbols, words necessarily simplify, group, conceptualize, and represent subjects with a great deal of ambiguity, making agreement on definition, scope, etc., a requirement before comprehension and communication is achievable. Fortunately, most of the time, context informs us, intuitively as to the intended scope and meaning of language, but not always.

Truth wholly depends on evaluation of the agreed-upon meaning of elements which must be stripped of any ambiguity before objective analysis becomes possible. For some things, this is trivial with the help of math and other non-subjective tools. For example, the word "blue" may conjure an image in mind, and a color between blue and something else may cause disagreement between those asked if it is "blue," but a solution exists to disambiguate and concretely define "blue"... That is, to establish an objective system of evaluation (a neutral computer program attached to a camera, for example), and bind those surveyed to an "agreement to arbitrate" via said program, whereby eliminating all possibility of disagreement.

But what of non-quantifiable, intangible, or ineffable subjects? Perhaps some things can never be concretely defined to a point of agreeability and disambiguation that may support objective analysis... Things like dignity, purpose, happiness, etc. For these things, arguably, there can be no universal truth beyond that which exists individually as matters of opinion.

The strongest foundation is always that which is based upon facts, truth being the only thing in the universe which cannot be destroyed. So it follows that the most prudent environment must maximize opportunities to define, disambiguate, and agree upon subjects of controversy. A desire to communicate and understand each other and to involve context inasmuch  as possible underlies this end. May the light of truth guide us out of darkness and into a happier, more dignified future for all.


-end-



