On Choices of Choices

The question arises upon consideration of liberty, to what extent may absolute, perfect liberty be supported by any governing body. The problem is, there exist things and activities which, by their nature represent "attractive nuisances" or are simply too toxic, destructive or otherwise harmful to society to be permitted to exist without strict regulation or total prohibition - which, obviously, is contrary to freedom.

"Choices of choices," that is, choosing between options that have been provided following a round of "preselection" by some authority, seems in violation of the basic tenets of liberty, unless said authority genuinely represents the will of the people, and always seeks, through its basic mission to maximize liberty in all its functions, with exceptions being only those things which cannot, justifiably, be supported in conjunction with maintaining a healthy, functioning community.

"Freedom isn't free," or more accurately, "gravity kills." Liberty is not self-sustaining, but involves active, deliberate resistance to fear-based decisions which ultimately, by "erring on the side of caution," erode liberty at every turn. Sometimes, caution is called for... but generally should involve reason(s) rather than exist as a default approach to everything, or else it should not be surprising when our options become scarce. "There ought to be a law..." Well bad apples should not cause fruit to be outlawed, any more than occasional bad drivers should not cause ridiculous rules to apply to everyone (see San Francisco City streets, currently) There "ought" to be better education, incentives (vs. punishments/penalties), and resistance to the gut reaction of outlawing anything unnecessarily at the cost of the liberty of those for whom it's never been a problem.

Law, as has been used in our society, is based on past precedents which are applied, unfairly, to others accused of wrongdoing, regardless of their unique circumstances. For every law, there exist countless examples of when such activity or behavior should be permitted, given appropriate circumstances. Law, therefore, should be replaced by a concise list of guidelines, if anything, and a System of Agreement upon which justice can effectively be rendered.

-end-
