on feminism


Many topics are widely misunderstood to have a commonly understood, well-defined definition, but actually, depending on who you ask and when, mean very different things. "America" for example, can mean many things like, the American Government, the geographical area and land, or the country with emphasis on its heritage, culture, traditions, core beliefs & values, etc. So the statement "I love America" begs clarification, and to which I say "which parts?" Feminism too is an ambiguous term that can mean general empowerment of females, respect and recognition of the "sacred feminine", or anything in between.
To be a feminist, one should have at the ready one's own definition of feminism for the sake of argument. Seldom do I include my own opinions or personal values in my writing, preferring to confine my topics to exploration of objective truth, but on the subject of feminism I will say that in my heart of hearts I am the most devout feminist I've ever met, defined as "a worshiper of the living goddesses as bringers of life, sustenance, and protection of our most precious resources - the children" As this kind of feminist my instincts drive me to provide for, protect, love and empower all the women and girls of my community. I feel that powerful women are an asset to the tribe  or village, as long as roles are reasonably appropriate per natural requirements.
Women share an equally necessary purpose as men and boys. Herein lies the trouble. An "equally important purpose" does not mean that men and women are literal "equals" nor that their natural roles are the same. Obviously women as carriers of the young are different and that's just the beginning. Women also have a unique role to nurse, nourish and protect children during infancy and beyond, which normally eclipses the same from a father acting in a natural role, but there is overlap and mutual support from both mother and father, ideally.
Any text about feminism must be willing to delve into what it means to be a woman, including observed natural and evolutionary roles.
In this year 2021, American women are programmed from birth with the lie that men and women are equal and that girls must seek and attain economic independence via education and careers, when this time would in nature, be spent entirely on the feminine roles stated above - being mothers or elders or other tribal matriarchs etc. This expectation of equality has given rise to a universe of broken families, contraception to protect girls' quest for economic independence, and worst, a cavernous rift between the sexes resulting in hatred, mistrust, physical separation in ways that prevent reconciliation, and so on. From these artifacts of the lie, stem yet more toxic byproducts such as desperation by a struggling matriarchy to keep control through legally-mandated monogamy resulting in serial monogamy which completes the vicious circle back to contraception which ultimately, as eliminating risk associated with intimacy, prevents any emotional attachment from forming between lovers (why risk emotional investment if pregnancy is not possible?).
The bottom line is that most feminists have good intentions, but terrible direction and even less accurate information about what will truly empower females- that is, restoring society to its natural state within reason. Obviously we are not going to abandon technology nor all medical science, but understanding natural roles and getting back to them should be the mantra of the feminist. Nature has solved many problems concerning sex, love, and biology for us. We have just chosen to blaze our own trails because of financial necessity, mostly. The rift can be repaired. It just takes understanding, respect, and love.

-end-

