on privacy & privileged information


There is no rule that states when an agreement must be acknowledged by parties, but generally securing one before any questionable action commences eliminates the gamble of whether or not the other party will agree after the fact. Agreements, express or implied (both are valid) form the basis for proper interaction between individuals in matters of sex, finance, property exchange, etc. And especially in matters of privileged information and privacy. To define "personal space", it is: "that which if you need to define it might mean you are dangerous." In other words, personal space, aka, the boundary at which others' freedom ends, is the reasonable space, either literal or symbolic (in terms of privileged information, for example) in which one should expect privacy and dominion over all information, final decisions, and especially sexual agreement (or refusal).
The biggest tragedy of pornography is the industry's practice of breaking the actors' instinctive barriers to access to what normally would be privileged information - the image of their nudity, and the choice of with whom to share it. Pressures in the form of expectations, financial necessity, and for many actors, deep seated trauma which demands an outlet end up destroying what is wrongly called "modesty" and is actually the innate desire of humans to seek sex with those whose attention is healthy and complementary.
Privacy is loved and feared - loved because in it, things flourish which cannot elsewhere. Feared because sometimes bad things flourish. While toxic, unhealthy, or evil things may never disappear completely, what grows in the warm seclusion of privacy is most often a product of its context. That is, without seeing something grow it's a good guess that it will be some predictable combination of its ingredients. If love, honor, freedom, fairness, dignity, respect, and honesty are ubiquitous, we can logically expect to see the same emerge from the darkness behind closed doors. It is fear of the unknown that drives people to invade the privacy of others. Choosing to respect or invade privacy are both self-reinforcing patterns - one positive the other negative.
In a heart without fear, evil can find no purchase.

-end-

