On Sexual Expectations

Any sexual activity between consenting parties which does no harm may be considered "appropriate," but what of expectations in new or existing relationships?

Hot button items which frequently become expectations or "requirements" include, minimum non-passivity, oral sex, flexibility of sexual positions (literally and figuratively), and many other possible examples. The truth is, no kind of sex may be expected unconditionally, ever, or else the basic tenet of consent is violated by the assumption that sex "will be" provided in some way. However, individuals may, without crime, insist that certain activities, or sex in general, be a requirement conditionally that an ongoing romantic affiliation continue. Indeed, romantic relationships devoid of any and all sex may be considered broken, in terms of nature and basic human needs.

Expectations contingent on agreement/acknowledgement of ongoing romantic involvement, as mentioned, may vary greatly from couple to couple, and it's important that each member know their own expectations and communicate them early on, before misunderstandings can undermine healthy love and trust.

As for this author's personal sexual expectations, like with expectations in general, I try to avoid them, thereby minimizing the potential for disappointment. However, while maintaining no expectation of any particular sexual activity, I do reserve the option to renegotiate or even cancel any agreement of romantic involvement if sex becomes too unavailable indefinitely, or becomes toxic to anyone. I also maintain a very strong wish (almost an expectation) that my partner be honest and not overly self-sacrificing to the point of personal discomfort or lack of fulfillment. My pleasure is in sharing in the experience of love, not pursuing one-sided sexual gratification. With that said, I don't avoid any particular activity or position unless it would violate any of the above...

Remember that (in nature) love and sex serve a greater purpose than physical pleasure per se, its ultimate invocation and climax to forge a bond between loving men and women who would become parts of a family nucleus - is to allow it to achieve its natural ends - to render man and woman a unit in the moment and beyond, and to fulfill one of our primary biological imperatives by gratifying nature, ourselves, and each other.


-end-


