On the Gay Community

The question of a definition of "the Gay Community" is met with, perhaps, a counterintuitive answer. Indeed, no dues must be paid, men, women, and miscellaneous alike are welcome to join without judgement or discrimination - and herein lies the kicker - even STRAIGHT people may be members of the gay community! So, carrying this logic to its conclusion, the ONLY consistent, defining characteristic shared by members of the Gay Community is a desire to band together and get shit done in the name of solidarity and victimhood from wrongful persecution.

With all due respect, this blatant opportunism and abuse of perception, as well as abuse of a system designed to protect the rights of minorities, has become a global campaign whose sprawling agenda has infiltrated every niche of politics, commerce, and now, education, and has become a catch-all for the disgruntled (gay and straight alike) to get their voices heard. 

And heard they are! We now have a whole month of the year (8.3% of all time) devoted to FORCING every space to be "gay friendly", which is just another way to stop evaluating individuals based on their individual characteristics like so many other misguided campaigns, e.g. affirmative action, seniority policies in workplaces, etc. which ultimately degrade everyone's quality of life - including and especially those supposed victims who such policies purport to protect.

But as usual, the juggernaut will continue its rampage until the problems it creates become so bad that society is forced to react to the reaction of gay activism.

Being Gay, Queer, Lesbian, Trans, etc. has nothing to do with straight people. To assume that anyone deserves special treatment because of their alleged affiliation with a protected class is, like any assumption, prone for very ill consequences. Muslims do not need to have Christian-friendly spaces in their homes and mosques, nor vice versa. What we have with the "Gay Community" is a shameless power grab behind a flimsy mask of hurt feelings and claims of discrimination which, upon closer inspection, reveal quite the opposite - that the Gay Community has become the dominant voice and whether or not you agree with its culture, flamboyance, virulence, and casual irreverence for any customs but its own, you are forced to accept it because now you have no choice. Soon, the decision to be straight itself may be considered an act of discrimination contributing to a "biased" environment. Sound far fetched? Look around.


-end-

