Perfection & Absolutes

Many thinkers have visited the territory of when and how "perfection" may exist. Those who have gotten to the heart of the matter can all agree that perfection (and absolutes, which involve perfection), exist only in the universe of truth and ideas, for which the languages of mathematics, logic, philosophy and science describe laws, facts, concepts, equations, etc. which may contain or embody perfection itself.

Truth, once proven, represents absolute perfection. There may be no "degrees of truth" contrary to many people's misunderstanding - however, language, be it lingual (spoken/written), scientific, philosophical, etc. may contain and express compound truths, those statements with multiple assertions, each of which representing an individual, independent element which may or may not be true.

Also important is the distinction between falsehood, and deception, which, while related, are not the same thing. For example, an omission (or "lie of omission") is not specifically untrue or false as it makes no false assertions, but it is deceptive and misleading making it a lie nonetheless.

To endorse and believe in "degrees of truth" is to call all truth into question, invalidating it by degrees. If something's not 100% true then it can't be 0% false! We quickly see that the possibility of "degrees of truth" must also, by necessity, render every fact an opinion - which makes education pointless, math meaningless, and confidence of knowledge impossible. In short, genuine truth is always 100% true, and never self-contradictory by any measurement. If it's not, the statement is likely being evaluated in conjunction with untrue elements alongside it. Genius see not only the ways in which things connect, but equally the ways in which they are separate.

* * *

Truth, being a binary-state system becomes trivial to define: by process of elimination, all that which is not false, must be true. Therefore, truth is, all that which cannot be disproven. There are those who would debate this obvious definition, citing examples of paradox and the "unknowable" (such as the liars paradox - "this statement is false", etc.) but these examples only serve to further support the definition of truth stated here, in that in such cases things may be both true and false! But contrarians will claim, that such things are NEITHER true nor false, just to be contrary.


-end-


