Radical Inclusivity in Teaching

A concept that for many years was at the heart of Methodism, is Radical Inclusivity - the practice of maximizing openness to parishioner attendance by maintaining an officially-nonjudgmental stance regarding  race, gender, age, health, sexual orientation, or any matter of individual preference. Recently, changes in the Church have recalled aspects of this policy, particularly regarding allowances of certain staff to be non-heterosexual, but the idea of Radical Inclusivity has tremendous merit, both in the Church, and especially, in education.

Unfortunately, most students of K-12 schools, private or public, over the last century, have for the most part been "taught at" with the expectation of involvement hinging on subtle (or sometimes, not -so-subtle) threats, including disciplinary action or prophecies of future failure in many forms, for less-than "best effort" by students to learn and complete assignments, test, etc. The problem here, obviously, is that even while supposedly "balanced" with the metaphorical carrots of good grades and accolades in exchange for good scholastic performance, no opportunity really exists to query students as to which subjects, if any, are genuinely interesting to them, much less explanations of "why" the school believes the same subject to be important. In the vein of any slavery-based system, courses are required (compulsory), without including or soliciting student involvement in the process of deciding on curriculums. In short, they learn what is force-taught to them because they have to.

Applying Radical Inclusivity to the classroom directly involves students, drawing their participation on purely voluntary bases, maximizing their interest in subject material by allowing them to ignore that which is uninteresting. Teachers teach and learn with students, leading by superior knowledge and genuine skill, those who, by process of elimination, are guaranteed to be interested and actively involved in the process - or they may, without judgement or penalty, be excused.

Radical Inclusivity also, for teachers, represents a style of engagement that promotes ongoing interest, fun, and enjoyment of the subject matter. Teachers may employ, at their discretion, humor, hyperbole, arbitrary digressions, outdoor sessions, frequent breaks, and always an overarching view of the purpose and utility of the material being presented/studied. In this manner, the nature and quality of education and appropriateness of subjects, is vastly improved!

-end-
