Selective Perception
As an interesting experiment, find a room or space where sensory data may be minimized - a place where light, sound, smells, etc. are controlled such that there are only 2 prominent sources, two sounds perhaps of comparable volume, but easily distinguishable. In this place, one may demonstrate the power of selective perception by relaxing and concentrating on one sound or the other. In time, focusing on the one, tends to draw it into the mind's foreground, and can even, given enough attention, obscure the other completely. But this trick of the mind is just proof of the fact that in general, we find most often that which we seek.

Sometimes called "The Law of Attraction," or the tendency or subjects of our focus to be drawn toward us, the phenomenon is much less a supernatural event than a simple matter of perspective and opportunities.

The role and influence of selective perception in our everyday lives is grossly underestimated by most people. Our entire world-view is merely an assemblage of memories - sensory artifacts from the sum of our life experiences, all of which are biased by the power of selective perception. For example, we see that in people who maintain certain beliefs, regardless of factual bases, their perception and resulting world-view is skewed predictably one way or another. Someone who has never believed in God will never see His hand in anything because, dimply, they are not "looking," whereas another who is pious sees Him everywhere. Love, again, if not consciously recognized and sought-after, may, for individuals, cease to exist. Trust, innocence, the benefits and necessity of freedom... anything we believe in, inexplicably begins to multiply before our eyes. In her epic track "Cloudbusting," brilliant singer/song-writer Kate Bush sings "But just saying it could even make it happen!" illustrating the power "putting things out into the universe has on reality, past, present and future. Propagating or disseminating ideas, emotions, truth & lies, creates a reality, by way of shaping the perception of those they touch, causing in very real, measurable ways, change to occur that affects us all.

See the possible, or be blind to the things we don't very well understand. Objectivity, the evaluation of things without bias, is a powerful skill and helps us, by way of keeping truth in hand, stay grounded on solid, factual bases and make choices without prejudice, fear, or otherwise inappropriate outside influence.

-end-
