What Girls Like

"Girls," defined here as women and young women who have, of their own choosing and natural development, joined the world of dating & romance, generally find the following qualities attractive in "boys."

Of course, as human individuals, first and foremost, girls' romantic preferences necessarily vary from person to person, but as givers of life and all that is needed for it to grow during the first years of infancy, females have evolved to be different in certain "standard" ways. To dispel some toxic misconceptions, for many years now, an idea has circulated that men and boys, if interested in a girl romantically, must avoid the "friend zone." Simply, if such a thing even exists, it would be absolutely part of any healthy, romantic relationship. The "friend zone" idea arose from two erroneous assumptions, that is: 1) The saying "let's just be friends" means literally what it says. It does not. This saying is the point of total failure in a romantic endeavor, at which the girl, being decent and kind, chooses to communicate what, following the failure, if anything, is still technically possible between the couple - but pretty much always marks the moment when social separation and other romantic paths can and should be pursued by both parties. So the "friend zone" is actually the "nothing zone," for clarity. Also, the friend zone idea 2) was based partly on the expectation, not entirely off-base, that being direct and clear about the intention to eventually have sex, and sex supposedly being a justifiable goal in itself, should be the basis for the proposal, in spirit and verbiage. Again, sex without love, companionship, friendship, trust and openness to building a family, is contrary to nature and evolution

Another wrong idea is that girls always prefer boys who are measured, steady, stable, analytical, or safe. While possibly counterintuitive, girls generally prefer, for very good reasons, risk-takers - those boys who act a bit or a lot, on the impulsive side. This trait, in terms of evolution, commonly signifies a partner who is most apt to successfully provide for the family. After all, who first slays the sabretooth lion, the wild boy who fearlessly hunts it with rocks and sticks, or the one who hides from it, returning to the shelter perhaps with a handful of leaves for dinner? Another quality found in tandem with impulsivity, is openness to love and commitment - a very large risk is presented by the consequences of natural sex as pregnancy, which those boys on the wild side, tend not to fear. In fairness, as girls continue to mature into older women, their interests shift slightly toward rationality and an expectation that a man should, while remaining open to risk-taking, be able to through stability, support her established quality of life. But even in these women, a young girl still notices and is attracted to, wild boys.

Other common things attractive to girls are: health, good instincts and intuition - just knowing what to do and a capacity for leadership - responsiveness to her needs and awareness of her feelings without needing them to be explained (also part of intuition). Handsomeness and fitness of course are factors, but usually girls value, above all else in a boy, intelligence. Intelligence, creativity, humor, adaptability, ability to problem-solve, and just figure things out, is very desirable to girls. Finally, and also very important - sexuality - a boy's loving touch and capacity for meeting her needs, responding to her signals, and being selfless in bed, girls adore.

-end-
