When the Aspens Fell

Kim and her husband, Ted Aspen had 2 children, Molly and Joseph, 9 and 7 years old. The aspens did not consider themselves "rich," but their household income and their estate was valued in the top 10% of the wealthiest of Americans. They had no want for cars, clothes, toys for the kids, or most any kind of economic freedom. But mysteriously to the parents their family struggled with frequent arguments, shouting matches, and most recently a new current of rebelliousness by Molly and, to a lesser extent, Joseph as well.

Molly was just at that age when she was comfortable staying home alone for several hours, and on occasion had babysat her brother while her parent(s) ran to the store. One day, while Ted and Joseph were away at a soccer meet, Kim was planning a small gathering of friends that evening and realized she needed some things from the store so she called to Molly, but got no response. Curious, but not worried, after all, their home was protected by a state of the art security and surveillance system, Kim walked into one of the front rooms where she heard the television on, and there she found Molly sitting on the couch eating chips from a bag, a big mess of chip-crumbs all over the couch and floor. Kim crossed her arms and said to Molly "No! You will clean this up right now young lady! And didn't you hear me call you?" Molly just shrugged, not taking her eyes off the TV as she continued to eat chips, ignoring her mother. Kim, now irritated, picked up the remote and pressed the power button. Molly's eyes shot daggers at her mother and she jerked her arm, letting the bag of oily chips fall sideways, spilling chips all over the expensive leather sofa. Kim screamed "Oh now you're in trouble... Go to your room right now!" And grabbing Molly's arm, dragged her into her room, then shut the door. Inside her room, Molly jumped-sat on her bed, grabbed one of her many stuffed animals, held it in front of her face, staring into its eyes, cussed at it, then spat in its face.

Hours later, Ted and Joseph came home. Ted said hi to Kim, kissed her, and the boy went about his own business in his room. Ted asked Kim, "are we ready for tonight?" Kim replied "no. I had trouble with Molly and didn't feel comfortable leaving her alone. I need things from the store... Can you be here for a bit?" Ted nodded and said "sure, also, it's probably nothing, but I got some concerning texts from my work. Something about a merger that's been in the works that they couldn't disclose until now. There going to be an announcement later today..." Kim smiled and said "well, you do such good work for them, I'm sure it'll be something good..." Then she left for the store and Ted went to the game room to watch sports. He checked the score, then turned his attention to the stack of mail on the coffee table, thumbing through the envelopes until he got to one from his bank. Opening it, he twisted his mouth into a scowl as he said to himself, "man these guys are crooks with this crappy interest rate." Then he picked up his phone and called Oscar, his accountant. Oscar picked up on the second ring "Oscar here. What's up Ted?" Ted said "Hey bro. Look I've been over a barrel with Wells Fargo for long enough. I need you to move my account to Case - me and Kim, everything." Oscar said "roger that. Everything. Give me a day to get everything set up at Case, then I'll move it all over. How's the family doing?" Ted said "we're great. It's good to be a rich data ha ha ha." Oscar chuckled and they ended the call. Then Ted turned off the TV and went to take a shower.

After his shower, Ted stepped out of the huge resort-style shower stall onto a soft, imported shower rug, and began to dry himself with the finest towels they sell at Crate & Barrel. But, instantly alert, he froze when he smelled smoke. Throwing on his pants, he bolted out of the bathroom and instantly  his eyes stung as a wall of acrid smoke engulfed him when he opened the bathroom door. Instinctively, he called out loudly "Molly! Joseph!" He rant to Joseph's room first, finding the boy unaware, playing video games. Ted said "Come with me now! There's a fire!" Then, with his son in hand he rant to Molly's room. She wasn't there. Ted again screamed "Molly!" Running toward the front of the house, he saw the kitchen and front room totally engulfed in flames. Ted ran with Joseph through the door to the garage where he found Molly at his workbench doing something with a doll. She looked at her dad and brother, noticing the fear in their eyes immediately and dropped her doll. Ted ran up to her and said "Molly we've got to get out of the house. Follow me now." She did. Ted clicked the main garage door opener and the three of them went outside into the bright sunlight and fresh air. Ted, thinking quickly noticed that he'd left his phone in the house and was about to tell the kids to stay put while he ran in  to get it, when Kim suddenly arrived, pulling slowly up in front of their driveway. Her eyes darted from her husband and children to the house which now had dark smoke streaming from vents and flames could be seen through the windows. She just gaped and Ted said "phone!" She quickly dialed 911 and by the time the fire department put out the blaze, the house was nearly half destroyed, and quite uninhabitable.

The police, having interviewed the Aspen's, were satisfied that Kim's story of leaving the burner on, on her stove, and the oven mitt too close, was probably true, but advised them not to leave town until an investigation was completed. The family then drove downtown to eat and check into a hotel.

At the La Quinta Inn, Ted inquired about vacancies for a family of four and was told they ad one, double-king bedroom available. Ted handed over his debit card and waited while the girl at the counter processed it. She looked up and said "sir, do you have another card? This one's not working." Ted blinked, then remembered that he was moving his money, so he smiled and asked the girl to "hold on" while he went out to the car. He asked Kim for her phone and called Oscar, who answered "hey Ted. Got everything switched to Chase. Here's you new account numbers. Got a pen?" Ted said "thanks buddy, but look, I have an emergency and need..." but the phone died as he was speaking. Ted asked Kim "is this thing charged?" And she said "it was probably about dead." Now getting nervous, Ted checked his wallet again and noticed there were no other credit cards or other forms of payment. Only $40 cash. Kim also had only a small amount of cash and her Wells Fargo card. The family drove to Jack in the Box to eat lunch and figure out their next move. Ted cursed himself for ever deciding to carry two wallets, this one for the gym being lighter without all his stuff in it.

That evening, they drove around, arguing and panicking because they had no way to pay for a room or even buy a phone charger now, after buying lunch and dinner for 2 adults and 2 kids. Ted parked on a residential street when it got dark and, tired, they all slept in the car.

It was some time after midnight and it had gotten very cold, but Ted hesitated to run the engine for worry about running out of gas. All this time the kids had been pretty quiet, but suddenly screamed as a bright light beamed through the car window. It was a policeman who tapped on the glass loudly with the butt of his flashlight. Ted turned the key in the ignition so that he could roll the window down. As soon as the window was rolled down, the cop said "everything alright here?" Shining the bright light onto Kim, then the kids in turn. Ted said "yes. we're just stuck here because our house burned down." The cop asked for Ted's driver license, registration, and proof of insurance. Ted collected the documents and handed them to the cop, who departed for about 5 minutes. When he returned, he handed Ted back his stuff and said "sorry to hear about your situation, but this is a Neighborhood Watch Community and someone complained about people sleeping in a car. You can't stay here." Ted just blinked, feeling trapped. He said "ok. understood. sorry for any trouble officer." Then the cop went back to his car and waited for Ted to leave. Ted drove back into downtown, tired and hungry, the kids asleep and Kim just staring out her window. Then Ted got an idea.

Checking his fuel, he pulled onto the interstate and headed North. Kim just looked at him, her question not needing to be spoken. Ted said "Martin's hunting cabin." Then after a few seconds of silence, Kim said "really?" Ted said "yeah. It's vacant, remote, and my brother won't mind, given the circumstances - just until we sort everything out. Beats sleeping in the Subaru." Kim agreed, reluctantly.

Ted drove 2½ hours to the land where the cabin was, adjacent to a large national forest. The land had been in Ted's family for 3 generations, and was bequeathed to his brother Martin when their dad passed away 5 years ago. Since then, the cabin had been used recreationally for summer trips to the forest and nearby lake. It was modest to say the least. More of a rough shack in the woods than anything fancy.

The aspens arrived at the cabin just before dawn. Ted got out of the car and stretched. Trying the door, he found it unlocked. Inside, a layer of dust covered a small, square rough hewn wooden table. There were two small bed, and a couple of folded cots with sleeping bags. The larder had a small supply of canned food - soups and chili, some green beans and there was a hotplate, but no electricity. Ted went back outside and found a gasoline generator with half-a-tank of fuel in it. Kim had gotten the sleepy kids out of the car and the first light of dawn was just beginning to show in the Eastern sky, but still, the stars twinkled in the cold morning air. The aspens all went into the cabin and Ted made up the cots. Molly and Kim fell asleep on one of the beds and Joseph crawled into one of the sleeping bags and fell asleep. Ted sat on one of the chairs surrounding the table and processed the events of the last day. After 20 minutes, Ted laid down on the empty bed and the whole family slept until noon.

Waking, hungry, Ted, Kim, Molly, and Joseph went outside and checked out the cabin's surroundings. Molly exclaimed that she'd found some fishing poles and Ted discovered a small seating area behind the cabin with a firepit and chairs and some books in a small cabinet, sheltered from the elements under the cabin's roof.

Meeting again inside the cabin, the Aspens had a family discussion. Ted informed them all of the food situation and that they had electricity, but must ration it. The kids were actually smiling and said they were starving, so Kim opened a can of chili and with bottles of water from the car, they ate. By the end of lunch, they'd gone through 4 cans of food, nearly ⅓ of all they had, but they were full. Recognizing the need for clean water as their top priority, Ted proposed to journey to the lake with some empty containers to fill and bring back. Then he said goodbye to the kids and kissed his wife and left on foot, headed toward the lake.

While Ted was gone, Kim began to clean the cabin dusting and using a broom she'd found. She asked Molly and Joseph to help her and almost fainted when they quickly and eagerly volunteered. The three of them cleaned the small windows, the dishes and sink, made the beds and cots, then went outside to sit in the chairs around the defunct firepit. Kim explored the books in the cabinet, finding some interesting books about birds, fishing, and some fictional novels, also some magazines about hunting that looked very old.

Ted returned with his jugs and bottles all filled with water from the lake, and the kids were happy to see him. He then set about using coffee filters and pans to boil and filter the water. He drank first. It tasted delicious.

The Aspens stayed at the cabin for a long time, using the generator only 30 minutes each evening to cook and clean dishes. They fished and caught and ate many fish, cooking them over the firepit. The family grew very close, and it was no mystery to Ted and Kim that virtually all of the behavior problems formerly troubling the kids, had vanished. They all worked and played as a unit, fishing, cleaning, reading, and loving. Ted, thinking hard about everything, decided that his error had been in trying to substitute toys and security for meaningful, shared experiences, memories that they would all cherish for their whole lives.

Eventually, the gasoline ran out, which was probably good timing as autumn was well underway and nights were getting quite chilly. So one day, several months after their arrival at the cabin, the Aspens drove back to civilization, contacted the right people, and resumed their lives of luxury, but all were forever changed by the humble, shared experience they'd had. And from then on, Ted and Kim gave no more toys as gifts to Molly and Joseph, rather as a family they travelled and explored and marveled at the beauty of the world - it's cities, nature and widely varied peoples, together. And they were happy. Molly and Joseph grew up better for all these experiences and passed this wisdom on to their own children, who quickly forgot it... Words, after all, are temporary. But their children, troubled by their families' superficialities, ended up having similar epiphanies to those in this story - and on the cycle goes.


-end-
